# JOPA - Data querying

This example showcases various ways in which the client application can query data with JOPA.

## Features

* Spring boot application with REST services,
* Publishing data in JSON-LD,
* Jena file storage,
* Autowiring `EntityManager` with Spring,
* SPARQL, SOQL, Criteria API.

### Query Approaches

JOPA supports multiple ways of querying data (besides simply finding an instance by its identifier). The following
approaches are demonstrated in this sample application. Each approach is realized by a dedicated implementation of the
`DeveloperRepository` and `GameRepository` interfaces.

#### SPARQL

A native SPARQL query can be used to retrieve data, in particular an `ASK` or a `SELECT` query. To get the query results
as entities, select just the resource (individual) representing the entity's identifier. JOPA will then load the whole
entity.

#### SPARQL Mapped to Entity

Another option is to map the query result directly to an entity. This is supported since JOPA 2.9.0. The approach lies
in projecting variables corresponding to the entity attributes from the query. JOPA takes care of mapping them to the
entity attributes (including handling plural values which are represented by multiple rows in the result set).

See the [wiki](https://github.com/kbss-cvut/jopa/wiki/Query-result-mapping#direct-mapping-to-entity-attributes) for
details.

#### Semantic Object Query Language

SOQL is an object query language similar to JPQL intended to simplify querying of semantic data based on application
object model. It allows to use names of classes and attributes instead of having to write out full IRIs (or declaring
prefixes) in a SPARQL query.
More information about the language and its current limits is available at the
project's [wiki](https://github.com/kbss-cvut/jopa/wiki/Semantic-Object-Query-Language).

#### Criteria API

The Criteria API is a programmatic query API that allows constructing a query using objects and factory methods. It is
possible to reference attributes from the metamodel built by JOPA on startup, but also utilize the _static metamodel_
that can be generated by the JOPA Maven plugin. This example shows both ways.

Criteria API queries are internally translated to SOQL, so its limits apply to them as well. More info on
the [wiki](https://github.com/kbss-cvut/jopa/wiki/Semantic-Criteria-API).

### JSON-LD Support

The demo uses [JB4JSON-LD](https://github.com/kbss-cvut/jb4jsonld) to publish JSON-LD data. More specifically,
we are using the [JB4JSON-LD Jackson](https://github.com/kbss-cvut/jb4jsonld-jackson) integration, which allows the
REST API to work with [Jackson](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson) as most Spring applications do.

### Persistence Setup

The persistence is set up in `cz.cvut.kbss.jopa.example09.persistence.PersistenceFactory`. We are using Jena file-based
repository. The file contains sample data exported from [DBPedia](https://dbpedia.org) and its location is set up in
`application.properties`.

### Autowired `EntityManager`

This demo makes use of the [JOPA-Spring-transaction](https://github.com/ledsoft/jopa-spring-transaction) library,
which enables JOPA to be used together with Spring's declarative transactions. In this concrete case, no transactions
are need. However, the library allows us to autowire `EntityManager` instances into data access objects via the
`JopaTransactionManager` and `DelegatingEntityManager` Spring beans.
See `cz.cvut.kbss.jopa.example09.config.PersistenceConfig` for reference.

## Running the Demo

To run the demo, `mvn spring-boot:run` can be used. The REST API is available
at [http://localhost:18119/example09/rest](http://localhost:18119/example09/rest)
(configured in `application.properties`).

The following endpoints are available:

* **GET** `/developers` - gets a list of all developers in the file, optional `name` query parameter allows to search
  for a developer using a name pattern
* **GET** `/developers/small` - gets a list of small developers, which have at most 100 employees
* **GET** `/developers/small/games` - gets a list of games by the small developers
* **GET** `/developers/{localName}` - gets a developer with an identifier consisting of the specified local name and the
  `http://dbpedia.org/resource/` namespace
* **GET** `/developers/{localName}/games` - gets a list of games by the specified developer
* **GET** `/games` - gets a list of all games in the file. Optional `from` and `to` parameters can be used to specified
  release date period (date in ISO format)

For each of the endpoints, the client can provide a query parameter `queryMechanism` specifying which query mechanism
should be used to retrieve the data. The following values are supported:

* `sparql`
* `sparql_mapping`
* `soql`
* `criteria`



